# 独立思考相关概念

## Beyond Feelings

### 1Who are you

That **time and place** are defined by specific circumstances, understandings, beliefs, and customs, all of which limit your experience and influence your thought patterns. They would influence your responses.

When one idea is expressed, closely related ideas are simultaneously conveyed, logically and inescapably. In logic, this kinship is expressed by the term **sequitur**.

 **mass culture** (the broadcast media, newspapers, magazines, Internet and popular music).

Television programmers use frequent scene **shifts** and **sensory appeals** such as car crashes, violence, and sexual encounters to keep audience interest from diminishing.


**Self-transcendence**, the need to rise above narrow absorption with self. According to Frankl, “the primordial anthropological fact [is] that being human is being always directed, and pointing to something or someone other than oneself: to a meaning to fulfill or another human being to encounter, a cause to serve or a person to love.” A person becomes fully human “by forgetting himself and giving himself, overlooking himself and focusing outward.”

**Finding meaning**, according to Frankl’s theory, involves “perceiving a possibility embedded in reality” and searching for challenging tasks “whose completion might add meaning to [one’s] existence.”

**Becoming an Individual**In light of what we have discussed, we should regard individuality not as something we are born with but rather as something **acquired**—or, more precisely, **earned**. Individuality begins in the realization that it is impossible to escape being influenced by other people and by circumstance. **The essence of individuality is vigilance.** The following guidelines will help you achieve this:
1. Treat your first reaction to any person, issue, or situation as tentative. No matter how appealing it may be, refuse to embrace it until you have examined it.2. Decide why you reacted as you did. Consider whether you borrowed the reaction from someone else—a parent or friend, perhaps, or a celebrity or fictional character on television. If possible, determine what specific experiences conditioned you to react this way.3. Think of other possible reactions you might have had to the person, issue, or situation.4. Ask yourself whether one of the other reactions is more appropriate than your first reaction. And when you answer, resist the influence of your conditioning.
To ensure that you will really be an individual and not merely claimto be one, apply these guidelines throughout your work in this book, as well as in your everyday life.

### 2What Is Critical Thinking?
The late American philosopher William Barrett observed that “**history** is, fundamentally, the adventure of human consciousness” and “the fundamental history of humankind is the history of mind.”

**Feeling** is a subjective response that reflects emotion, sentiment, or desire; it generally occurs spontaneously.

**Thinking** is a conscious mental process performed to solve a problem, make a decision, or gain understanding.

The focus of this book is on critical thinking. **The essence of critical thinking is evaluation.**（Evaluation is a systematic determination of a subject's merit, worth and significance, using criteria governed by a set of standards. It can assist an organization, program, project or any other intervention or initiative to assess any aim, realisable concept/proposal, or any alternative, to help in decision-making; or to ascertain the degree of achievement or value in regard to the aim and objectives and results of any such action that has been completed.）

**Critical thinking**, therefore, may be defined as the process by which we test claims and arguments and determine which have merit and which do not. 
In other words, critical thinking is a search for answers, a quest. Not surprisingly, one of the most important techniques used in critical thinking is **asking probing questions**. Where the uncritical **accept** their first thoughts and other people’s statements at face value, critical thinkers **challenge** all ideas.

**Intuition** is commonly defined as immediate perception or comprehension of something—that is, sensing or understanding something without the use of reasoning.


The basic activities in critical thinking are investigation, interpretation, and judgment, in that order:

>**Investigation**, finding evidence—that is, data that will answer key questions about the issue. The **evidence** must be both relevant and sufficient.
>
>**Interpretation**, deciding what the evidence means. The interpretation must be more reasonable than competing interpretations.
>
>**Judgment**, reaching a conclusion about the issue. The conclusion must meet the test of logic.

**Irresponsible thinkers** first choose their conclusions and then seek out evidence to justify their choices. The crucial thing is not to let hunches and hypotheses manipulate our thinking and dictate our conclusion in advance.

**Writing** may be used for either of two broad purposes: to discover ideas or to communicate them. **For some reason, the very act of writing down one idea seems to generate additional ideas.**


### 3What Is Truth?
For one thing, it is influenced by our desires, interests, and expectations: “From the outset **perception** is selective and tends to simplify the world around us. **Memory** continues and hastens the process.” For another, even within its limited focus, perception is often flawed. 

The **truth** about something is **what is so about it**—the facts in their exact arrangement and proportions. 

Truth is apprehended by **discovery**, a process that favors the curious and the diligent. 
A good way to begin is to keep the following thought in mind: “I know I have limitations and can easily be mistaken. And surely I’ll never find all the answers I’d like to. But I can observe a little more accurately, weigh things a little more thoroughly, and make up my mind a little more carefully. **If I do so, I’ll be a little closer to the truth.**” That’s far different from saying, “**Everyone makes his or her own truth**” or “It all depends on how you look at it.” And it is much more reasonable.


**cause-and-effect**:

1.One event can precede another without causing it

**coincidence**. This possibility is the basis of the principle that “correlation does not prove causation.” 

2.Not all causation involves force or necessity.

We will therefore define **causation** as the phenomenon of one thing influencing the occurrence of another. 


3.There is a wild card in human affairs—free will.

Now we need to consider why they are less predictable. The answer is because people possess **free will**—that is, the capacity to respond in ways that oppose even the strongest influences. 

However, **possessing** free will is no guarantee that we will **apply** it. In fact, one factor makes such application difficult. That factor is **habit**.


4.Causation is often complex. 

But this lesson will be even clearer if we examine a case in the way investigation usually proceeds—**backward** in time from the latest effect to the earliest causative factor; that is, to the “root” cause.


### 4What Does It Mean to Know?

Yet she didn’t know, for **knowing** involves more than having the right answer. It also involves **the realization that you have it** .

Is it possible that **what I and other people think we know isn’t really so**? This little question is one of the most useful tools in critical thinking.























































