### 1ApplicationsNote: One of the best ways to develop your thinking (and writing) skills is to record your observations, questions, and ideas in a journal and then, as time permits, to reflect on what you have recorded—considering the meaning and application of the observations, answering the questions, elaborating on the ideas (and, where appropriate, challenging them), and recording your insights. An inexpensive bound notebook or spiral notebook will serve the purpose. **A good approach is to record your initial observations, questions, and ideas on the left side of the page, leaving the right side blank for your later analysis and commentary.** The value of this reflective process is so great that you should consider keeping such a journal even if your instructor does not make it a formal part of the course.

1. Do a brief study of attention shifts such as the one described in the chapter. Record a half-hour show. Then play the show back twice, the first time counting the number of shifts within the program, excluding commercials, and the second time counting only those within commercials. Complete the necessary arithmetic and be prepared to share your results in class.2. Reflect on your findings in application 1. Write several paragraphs discussing the implications of those findings for education, business, and family life.3. Many people cheerfully pay $6 or $7 a gallon for designer drinking water but moan and groan when they have to pay $3 a gallon for gasoline. Does any- thing you read in this chapter help you understand why this is so?4. Imagine how different America might be if Frankl’s emphasis onself- transcendence and personal responsibility, rather than Maslow’s emphasis on self-actualization and popular culture’s emphasis on self-esteem, had been dominant for the past fifty years. List as many ways as you can in which our society might be different today and comment on whether each would be beneficial or harmful. Be prepared to explain your views in class discussion.
5. Watch one of the music video channels—MTV,VH1,CMT,BET—forat least an hour. Analyze how men and women are depicted in the videos. Note significant details. For example, observe whether men are depicted in power roles more than women and whether women are portrayed as objects of male desire. Decide what attitudes and values are conveyed. (You might want to record as you are watching so that you can review what you have seen, freeze significant frames for closer analysis, and keep your observations for later reference or class viewing and discussion.)6. Suppose you asked a friend,“How did you acquire your particular identity—your sentiments and preferences and attitudes?” Then suppose the friend responded, “I’m an individual. No one else influences me. I do my own thing, and I select the sentiments and preferences and attitudes that suit me.” How would you explain to your friend what you learned in this chapter?7. Ask yourself the question,Who am I? Write down ten answers to this question, each on a separate slip of paper. Use the first three paragraphs of this chapter to help you frame your answers. Arrange the pieces of paper in order of their importance to you. Then explain the arrangement—that is, which self- descriptions are most important to you, and why?8. Identify the various positive and negative influences that have shaped you. Be sure to include the particular as well as the general and the subtle as well as the obvious influences. Which of those influences have had the greatest effect on you? Explain the effects as precisely as you can.9. Note your immediate reaction to each of the following statements. Then apply the four guidelines given in this chapter for achieving individuality.

>a.Healthcare workers should be required to be tested for HIV/AIDS.>b.Beauty contests and talent competitions for children should be banned.>c. Extremist groups like the Ku Klux Klan should be allowed to hold rallies on public property or be issued permits to hold parades on city streets.>d. Freshman composition should be a required course for all students.>e.High school and college athletes should be tested for an a bolic steroid use.>f. Creationism should be taught in high school biology classes.
>g. Polygamy should be legalized.>h. The voting age should be lowered to sixteen.>i. The prison system should give greater emphasis to the punishment of inmates than to their rehabilitation.
>j. Doctors and clinics should be required to notify parents of minors when they prescribe birth control devices or facilitate abortions for the minors.>k. A man’s self-esteem is severely injured if his wife makes more money than he makes.>l. Women like being dependent on men.

10. Group discussion exercise: Discuss several of the statements in application 9 with two or three of your classmates, applying the four guidelines presented in this chapter for developing individuality. Be prepared to share your group’s ideas with the class.

### 2Applications1. Think back on your previous schooling. How closely has your experience matched Arthur’s? Explain.2. Reflect on your powers of concentration. Do you find it difficult to ponder important matters? Are you able to prevent the casual, semiconscious drift of images from interrupting your thoughts? Do you have less control in some situations than in others? Explain.3. Rate yourself on each of the eight characteristics of good critical thinkers that are listed on pp. 24–26. Which are you strongest in? Which weakest? If your behavior varies from situation to situation, try to determine what kinds of issues or circumstances bring out your best and worst mental qualities.4. Consider how you approach problems and issues. Is there any pattern to the way you think about a problem or an issue? Does an image come to mind first? Or perhaps a word? What comes next? And what after that? If you can’t answer these questions completely, do this exercise: Flip half a dozen pages ahead in this book, pick a sentence at random, read it, and note how your mind deals with it. (Such thinking about your thinking may be a little awkward at first. If it is, try the exercise two or three times.)5. Read each of the following statements carefully. Then decide what question(s),>a. Television news sensationalizes its treatment of war because it gives us if any, a good critical thinker would find it appropriate to ask pictures only of injury, death, and destruction.>b. My parents were too strict they wouldn’t let me date until I was sixteen.>c. It’s clear to me that Ralph doesn’t care for me—he never speaks when we pass in the hall.>d. From a commercial for a news net work:“The news is changing everyminute of the day, so you constantly need updating to keep you informed.”>e. The statement of an Alabama public elementary school teacher who had students recite the Lord’s Prayer and say grace before meals: “I feel part of my job as a teacher is to instill values children need to have a good life.”



### 3Applications1. Thinkofarecentsituationinwhichsomeonereferredinappropriatelyto “my truth.” Write two or three paragraphs, in your own words, explaining to that person what you learned in this chapter.2. AcentralquestioninsociologyisHowdoessocietyevolve?Threewell- known individuals gave very different answers. Auguste Comte (1798–1857) suggested that it involved three stages: religious, metaphysical, and scientific. Herbert Spencer (1820–1903) claimed that it followed Darwinian “natural selec- tion,” in which only the fittest survive. Karl Marx (1818–1883) argued that it occurred through class conflict as a result of economic exploitation. Would belief in relativism—the idea that everyone creates his or her own truth—increase or decrease someone’s motivation to analyze these three viewpoints and pursue the question of society’s evolution? Explain your response.3. Readeachofthefollowingpassages,decidehowreasonableitis,and explain your thinking.a. Peoplewhobelievethat“everyonecreateshisorherowntruth”should never argue with anyone about anything. If they do, they are being inconsistent.b. Motivationtodoanythingdependsonthebeliefthatithasnotyetbeen done. Everyone who loses something precious, say a diamond ring, will search diligently and even desperately until it is found. But only a fool would continue searching for it after it was found. It is no different with other kinds of searches, such as the search for truth. Once we think we have it, we stop looking.4. Foryearsgradeschoolstudentsfacedthisquestionontheirsciencetests: “True or False—The famous rings of the planet Saturn are composed of solid material.” If the students marked “true,” they lost credit, because the “truth” was that Saturn’s rings were composed of gas or dust. Then, in 1973, radar probes revealed that all those wrong answers had been right. Saturn’s rings are, in fact, composed of solid matter.12 This confusing case seems to suggest that the truth changed. Did it really? Explain.5. Thesceneisacampussecurityoffice,wheretwostudentsarebeingques- tioned. A few minutes earlier, they were engaged in a fistfight in the cafeteria. The campus police ask them again and again how the fight started. The stories con- flict. Because each student seems genuinely convinced that the other one was the aggressor and there were no witnesses, the campus police have no hope of discov- ering the truth. But is there a truth to discover? Or are there two truths, one for each student’s story? What light does the chapter shed on these questions?6. Astrangephenomenonthataffectsatinynumberoftheworld’s inhabitants has interested psychologists for some time. It occurs during what Norwegians call the “murky time,” the two months each year during which areas above the Arctic Circle experience almost unrelieved darkness. The effects on peo- ple have been discovered to be unfortunate, even dangerous. At worst, people ex- perience severe tenseness, restlessness, fear, a preoccupation with thoughts of death and even suicide. At best, they experience an inability to concentrate, fa- tigue, a lack of enthusiasm for anything, suspicion, and jealousy. Part of the cause is seen as lack of sleep. Accustomed to day and night, people become confused by constant darkness.13 This phenomenon poses an interesting test of truth. Would it be proper to say the phenomenon was true before it was recognized and acknowl- edged by psychologists? Or did it become true only when they became aware of it? And what of your relationship to the phenomenon? Before you became aware of it for the first time, whether reading it here or elsewhere, it was not “true to you.” But did that make it any less true? Explain in light of this chapter.
7. Evaluatethefollowingdialoguesinlightofwhatyoulearnedinthis chapter. If you lack sufficient knowledge to judge the issue, do some research.a. Martha:Idon’tcarewhatthecourtssayaboutabortion—I’mconvinced it’s murder because the fetus is a human being.Marian: If you want to believe that, fine. Just don’t impose your beliefs on others and prevent them from exercising their rights.Martha: You don’t seem to understand. It’s not just a fetus in my uterus that’s human but the fetus in the uterus of every pregnant woman. Marian: Nonsense. You have no right to classify what exists in someone else’s uterus. That’s her business. You should mind your own business.b. Barbi:Televisionshowsaboutsuicideshouldnotbeaired. Ken: Why?Barbi: Because they cause people to commit suicide.Ken: That’s ridiculous. How can a drama or documentary that shows the tragedy of suicide cause people to commit suicide?Barbi: I don’t know how it happens. Maybe some people have thoughts of suicide already and the show reinforces them. Or maybe they focus on the act of suicide and lose sight of the tragedy. All I know is that attempted suicides increase after the airing of such shows.c. Mabel: I notice that when you get a newspaper you immediately turn to the astrology column. Do you really believe that nonsense?Alphonse: It’s not nonsense. The planets exercise a powerful influence on our lives; their positions in the heavens at the time of our birth can shape our destiny.Mabel: I can’t believe I’m hearing such slop from a science major. Alphonse: What you fail to understand is that astrology is science, one of the most ancient sciences at that.d. Jake: What did you think of the chapter “What Is Truth?” Rocky: It’s stupid.Jake: What do you mean?Rocky: It contradicts Chapter 1.Jake: I didn’t get that impression. Where’s the contradiction?Rocky: In Chapter 1 the author says that we should strive to be individuals and think for ourselves. Now he says that his idea about truth is OK and ours isn’t and that we should follow his. That’s a contradiction.8. Groupdiscussionexercise:Howmanytimeshaveyoubeencertainsome- thing was true, only to find out later that it was not? Discuss those experiences with two or three classmates. Be prepared to share the most dramatic and inter- esting experiences with the rest of the class.














































































































































































































































